1. ETL Pipeline
An ETL pipeline is a crucial data processing tool used to extract, transform, and load data from various sources into a destination system
2. Dynamodb
a managed NoSQL database service provided by AWS. Supports key-value and document data structures and is designed to handle a wide range of applications requiring scalability and performance
3. Stateless vs Stateful
In stateless the server is not required to retain the information about the state, easy to scale, loosely coupled architecture, handles crashes well, server's design, architecture, implementation is straight forward
In stateful, the server needs to remember/required to keep information about the current state and session, not easy to scale, server and client are dependent tightly bound, does not handle crashes will, server's design, architecture, and implementation is hard
4. Reverse Proxy: a reverse proxy is a server that sits in front of web servers and forwards client requests to those web servers. Proxy server - a forward proxy often called a proxy server is a server that sits in front of a group of client machines. When these computers make a requests to sites and services on the internet, the proxy server intercepts those requests and then communicates with web servers like a middle man. Why? to avoid state or institutional browsing restrictions, to block access to certain content - proxies can also be set up to block a group of users from accessing certain sites, to protect their identity online.
A reverse proxy sits in front of the one or more web servers, intercepting requests from clients, when a client send requests to the origin server of a website, they are intercepted at the network edge and ensures that no client ever communicates directly with the origin server
5. Distributed Denial of service : A DDoS attack is a malicious attempt is disrupt the normal traffic of a targeted server, service or network by overwhelming the target or its surrounding infrastructure with a flood of internet traffic. Mitigation blackhole routing : send all the traffic to a created blackhole route; rate limiting: limiting the number of requests a server will accept over a certain time window; web application firewall: mitigating a layer 7 attach; anycast network diffusion: uses an Anycast network to scatter the attack traffic across a network of distributed servers to the point where the traffic is absorbed by the network
6. CDN : A content delivery network is a goegraphically distributed group of servers that caches content close to the end users. A CDN allows for the quick transfer of assets needed for loading internet content HTML pages, js files, assets, images, videos. cache content at the network edge. Improving website load times, reducing bandwidth costs, increasing content availability and redundancy, improving website security
7. Edge Computing: Edge computing is a networking philosophy focused on bringing computing as close to the source of data as possible in order to reduce latency and bandwidth use. edge computing -> running fewer processes on cloud and moving those closer to local places such as user's computer, IoT device, edge server
8. Serverless: Serverless computing is a method of providing backend services on an as-used basis. A serverless provider allows users to write and deploy code without the hassle of worrying about the underlying infrastructure. A company that gets backend services from a serverless vendor is charged based on their computation and do not have to reserve and pay for a fixed amount of bandwidth or number of servers as the service is auto-scaling.
9. ETCD: a strongly consistent, distributed key-value store that provides a reliable way to store data that needs to be accessed by a distributed system or cluster of machines. It gracefully handles leader elections during network partitions and can tolerate machine failure, even in the leader node
10. nginx: a piece of software that runs on a server, that handles HTTP requests, can act as a load balancer proxies the requests, caching,
11. Database deadlock: is a situation where two or more transactions are permanently blocked because each is waiting for a resource locked by another, creating a circular dependency that prevents any from proceeding
